then tells ghost Canyon compute elements
is one of the companies more interesting
products just like its previous Hades
Canyon nook that's why Intel and AMD
working together to create an Intel plus
an D silicon solution for ghost Canyon
the NOC team has glued a BGA CPU to a
custom form factor motherboard complete
with all the i/o cabling and the chipset
and then stuck that into a PCIe sized
card call it practice for intel's video
card development if you'd like but the
purpose of the next unit of computing
systems from intel is to be small
they've grown with this generation to
accommodate traditional video cards as
an option intel's intricate solution for
packing a bunch of relatively high power
parts into a smaller than i TX form
factor is impressive
although thermals remain the biggest
question that we'll investigate today
and this content will be benching
thermals acoustics application
performance and tearing down the nook
and the compute element card before that
this video is brought to you by coursers
hydro x water cooling series of course
our strength is bringing water cooling
to the masses and it has built out
cooling solutions with industry leaders
to help newcomers get into open-loop
cooling of course hair has fittings
adaptors GP water blocks CPU water
blocks pump has combos and radiators all
available in the Hydra X line as you can
see in our footage these kits can be
used to build the beautiful open loop
systems learn more at the link of the
description below the ghost Canyon nook
comes with this compute element card at
the heart of it and this is the really
interesting part that sort of starts to
resemble a video card it's a PCIe sized
device that's basically a complete
system all in this form factor it's one
of the products that as an enthusiast
that knock stuff like Katie's Canyon
it's genuinely fun for us to play with
we've enjoyed working with it as
enthusiasts but we've also had
difficulty placing exactly the use case
for them so this is a limited market
size and in tall assuredly knows that
but despite it being a limited market
size it's really well built and
something that we're going to be
exploring today the biggest concern
we've had though has been thermals and
it's for reasons that should be
immediately obvious especially you look
at our CES coverage where the compute
element is sandwiched against a video
card such that the two are basically
back to front and you've
only got the blower fan on the CPU to
deal with the 1980 HK in this instance
which is an eight-core mobile chip
that'll be the biggest part of our
benchmarking today along with tearing it
down in terms of the pricing to get that
other way first so the compute element
card won't be available till later this
year maybe q3 around there and that's
going to be priced at 1364 the model
with the i-9 in it it'll be priced at
904 the i7 model and then $720 to the i5
model but the whole box generally should
be roughly around $1700 to i9 1250 for
the i7 and then 1050 for the i5 kit and
that's going to vary based on what
components companies like Coolermaster
put in that or CyberPower puts in there
as color masters making one of the cases
that's a bit larger - it should be
available within the next month and the
standalone computer element comes later
that pricing is really bad value if you
use to DIY but innocent since you're
paying for a custom small form-factor
everything for a low volume part so
economies of scale aren't in the Knux
favour as a quick aside just to point
this out we don't really talk about
packaging it comes with this we thought
this was a reviewer only kit so we were
never going to mention it but we've been
informed that this is actually the
retail packaging and it's got a UV
sensitive coat of paint on it and it
comes with a backlight which honestly
given how rabid and these fans are their
products should probably come with the
backlight - so moving on the most
interesting aspect of this besides
thermals and noise is the base board
which is what everything connects to and
you're limited to just a couple of PCIe
lanes so you do it with 16 through the
device into the base board and then
you've got a GPU on there and you've got
an option for an SSD on there as well
before talking about all of that though
we're gonna start with the thermals and
noise part of the solution - with
dealing with thermals is going to be the
lag on the fan curve so fan curve is a
big part of it and then hysteresis of
the the fan curve is going to be a big
part of controlling the acoustic side of
the thermal solution because what you
don't want is the fan to jump too much
when it detects any type of small load
and we'll talk about that in this
content as well the other thing to
consider is that video cards are loaded
with flip chip BGA components so the
memory it's all flip chip that means the
silicon is closer to the back of the PCB
than it is to the top of the memory
module and for that reason you have a
lot of radiative heat
off the back side of the video card that
is now butted immediately against a
blower fan for the CPU so that's one of
the things we're gonna be looking at we
collected noise at a controlled 20 inch
distance which is our standard
measurement distance for tests the
charts were going to show here will
illustrate noise over time in response
to actions on the computer here's the
first chart before formally starting the
test we had already noticed what you're
seeing signified by those white blips on
the radar the fan ramps at around the
forty second mark the first white blip
when we opened 3dmark that's not
launching the workload it's not
launching the actual exe for 3dmark it's
literally just opening the 2d interface
that produces zero percent load on the
GPU and nearly zero on the CPU just
opening something waking the nook from a
low-power state drove the fan to 38 DBA
for a few seconds the immediate ramp
down is what's more annoying though most
users find that noise change is more
noticeable than just a flat higher noise
level the fan ramps again towards 38 DBA
this one caused simply from opening
hardware info and explorer.exe and then
the fan noise dives back down towards
the noise floor the next white blip is
around when three mark actually starts
the fan charges to 47 DBA then settles
at about 45 for a few seconds and then
dives back toward 33 DBA over the next
nine minutes or so the noise level
steadily Rises and has occasional fan
speed bursts these bursts happen when a
temperature threshold is tripped it
seems that the fan curve needs more
hysteresis more lag because it'll
overreact and blast the speed to try and
settle for what might be a 1 degree
difference in target temperature the
average noise was about 38 DBA at 20
inches which isn't bad overall it's just
the change that matters this is actually
completely reasonable and only a little
bit louder than our standardized the
noise task for PC cases and tell us that
much better than we expected at keeping
overall noise levels down especially
given how small all the fans are but the
company needs to tune its fan profile to
be less aggressive towards those small
blips our next noise test was with a
more torturous Wirth look for this one
rather than starting from a complete
idle low-power state we started from a
lightweight desktop usage from things
like opening notepad some file browsing
and so forth this means that we didn't
exit to a low-power idle state when
starting the test so the fan ramp isn't
nearly as aggressive for this one we
started at around 28 DBA and then we
went through some spiky fan behavior
between 38 DBA and 42 DBA the fans then
Tom down to about 33 before climbing
into the 40s for the remainder of the
torture test when we say torture we mean
both the CPU and GPU are under 100%
workload between fur mark and prime so
this is about as bad as it gets
if for some reason you told your nook to
fold for example this would probably be
about the results for noise levels both
tests put the knock around the same
place for noise 43 DBA is starting to
get annoying and is certainly louder
than we typically experience in an ATX
case but it's by no means deafening the
most important thing is predictable
stable noise rather than the erratic
noise that's experienced under lower
power desktop usage that's what people
will notice far more the ghost Canyon
knock has some extra sensors inside the
enclosure that are useful for thermal
measurement and potentially useful for
fan programming following these sensors
rather than the CPU sensors may be a
solution for the fans beat similar to
following a liquid temperature sensor
the first thermal burn is for 3dmark
fire strike extreme the next one will be
for the torture test and then we'll take
it apart and look to see what the
solution looks like inside here's the
sensor chart first one is label to
internal ambient another one is fan air
vent we'd assume that this is at the fan
inlets we'll look for these again in the
disassembly section and we also measure
ambient temperature for every second
during our tests so we'll put that on
the temperature chart first room ambient
was about 22 to 23 degrees during the
entire test the internal ambient
temperature began at around 36 degrees
when idle putting us at an internal to
external Delta of about 14 degrees
within 5 minutes the temperature clients
to 42 degrees or a delta of 20 degrees
inside the outside it wasn't until the
10 82nd mark or about 18 minutes that we
finally reached a steady state
internally that mark was 45 degrees a
delta of about 22 degrees the air vent
sensor reads steady-state about two
minutes later at 54 degrees Celsius
here's a chart of the CPU thermals under
the 3d mark stress test remember that
three mark graphics is primarily a GPU
workload as
most games we don't typically see CPUs
get that hot in this particular workload
but the sandwich to nature of the Nook
changes that the all-court average
temperature sits warmly at 60 degrees
Celsius but this is still significantly
lower than we might have expected
overall the thermals are reasonably
controlled and that's largely thanks to
the 38 to 40 s DBA noise level at the 20
inch measured distance even still we
have to give credit to Intel for a
thermal design that out does what
initial visual impressions would lead us
to believe it seems that someone has
built a blower fan that finally does a
decent job without being a tornado but
the reason for that is because we're
talking about a CPU which are there
typically and this one is lower power
parts then the average GPU that's cooled
by a blower fan looking at the per core
maximum which fluctuates depending on
which core is hit with a task the peaks
are about 80 degrees consistently with
one spike towards 87 at the end overall
as these are maximum temperatures and
not the all core average we consider
this to be five the only time it
wouldn't be fine as if you were
overclocking at which point you start
introducing limitations to the maximum
of all core OC because a few specific
cores are running hot and might trip
into t.j.maxx or thermal protection GPU
and drive thermals are last for the
3dmark burn the GPU added up had about
70 degrees flat and that's just because
of how GPU BIOS works it's rare that we
see GPUs fluctuating temperatures since
V BIOS often dictates a GPU temperature
target and then since the fans to follow
that target no matter what and we're not
controlling the fans here because the
point was to see how it behaves out of
box and what the noise levels are drive
temperature for what it's worth was
about 60 degrees Celsius on the PCIe OS
drive or about 40 for the unused storage
drive these temperatures barely move
under a non iya workload so it just sort
of looks like a square wait for the FIR
mark and prime95 torture test we finally
found the braking points of the Nook the
unit ran a cpu average core temperature
of just over eighty degrees not bad for
an average up until a ten eighty second
mark at which point our prime95 workload
stopped and only the FIR mark workload
continued on the GB is sat at 67 - 68
degrees for the duration of the workload
for frequency we see frequency
fluctuations between 3,000 megahertz all
core and 30 400 megahertz all core with
only fir mark running towards the end
and
no more load on the CPU the frequency
returned it to its forty six hundred and
forty seven hundred megahertz boost and
there was a although not shown spike in
core temperature to about one hundred
degrees for a split second where we had
some throttling and then it returned
back down to better understand all these
thermal numbers we should probably take
a closer look at the inside of the Intel
Ghost Canyon Nook not too much has
changed on core components in CES but
this particular chassis is new to us and
there have been a few changes to its
implementation so take part the Nook is
not too difficult as it's sold by Intel
you need two screwdrivers you'll need a
Phillips head zero so we've got one of
those from arrow on tool kit and then
also a eventually if Phillips had two or
one would work as well and two screws in
the back so just on stock of this and
this is where it's actually pretty well
thought out I didn't think when I first
took this apart didn't think we'd be
giving them credit so soon in the
process for design but the reason that
this we like this is really simple
there's this cable catch right here so
these are two exhaust fans obviously we
should measure these two so these are 80
ml fans they're both exhaust and a
couple things that are done really well
immediately here the cable catches one
and if we look in the top of the nook
that's because they don't have a lot of
places to put cables it's a mini ITX
build functionally and it's in its core
and that means there's a bunch cables
that end up potentially sticking up out
of the top so this thing it's not meant
for dust or anything like that it's just
to stop cables from getting as a fan and
you can tell because they didn't put it
on the other one so that's pretty small
detail that's really well done and for
the fans they've done it like modern
video cards where it's pinned the pad
basically so you've got these pins as
opposed to using standard fan cables the
cables connect here and then you just
connect the pins to the front of the
device up there so that's the top of the
knock that handles most of the cooling
you'll feel a lot of hot air coming out
of there
both sides are mesh as stated earlier
this is job well done by Intel for
whoever their their case partner was for
listening to the criticisms we've had
for a couple years now video card ends
are breathing through the mesh panel
and because the way this one's oriented
this particular model its fins are
oriented left-to-right so you can get
mostly exhaust well Asus has done a poor
job here perhaps unsurprisingly for
their video cards these days but their
plastic shroud this is an ace whose
problem on Intel problem plastic shroud
is covering where really there should be
exhaustion out of the case so you lose
some of the benefit of what they've
designed and what's gonna happen as most
the air will probably end up coming out
of the top of the system
these are Philips one screws in the back
Phillips zero screws for the sides and
our screwdriver kits are coming back in
stock we just placed orders for those in
the meantime we also have the medium mod
mat which I'm working on right now
that's the anti-static surface there
with some reference pin outs on it
although as you'll see in a moment this
one has some unique pin outs and you can
grab this on stored out gamers Nexus
dotnet if you want to pick it up
so this parts not too hard it it vexed
me the first time I did it but you have
to take this thing off and then you can
flex the chassis like that and pull the
video card out once that supports out of
there
so another small detail intel's done
well a connector to turn it into a right
angle plug which is another way to cut
maybe a quarter of an inch off the
height USB type-c on the top
standard EPS 12 volt eight pin on the
top as well we can get to a 10 pin
connector in a second
they've tucked that into some teeth on
the side of the i/o bracket oh we need
to disconnect the wireless as well which
is up here okay so this cable this goes
to the front of the case that's going to
be where the fans connect so that's your
your fan power and connection to in tach
to the rest of the computer I think this
is HD audio we've got another connector
over here which is going to be at least
some data this looks like the front
panel connection all the lights and the
power button that goes to a separate PCB
for that and then there's this thing
which is just like I mean it says do not
remove very clearly there so this I
don't remember seeing this at CES maybe
it was there but this thing is I think
it's just to sit between the blower fan
here and whatever card ends up in front
of it I'm pretty sure it's just to make
sure that there's always this amount of
space for it to pull air so you can see
that the chassis cuts in a little bit
and you've got an area where just the
blower fans exposed so even if a
backplate busts up straight against this
thing there's still a tiny gap that's
going to be inadequate for cooling but
it will make sure that the card doesn't
completely torch itself so pretty sure
that's why that do not remove is there
it's just to sit between the two now
there are going to be some models coming
from other people cooler masters working
on one this is called the baseboard and
cooler master with its version
wants to take Intel's reference base
board here and space these two slots for
their part compute element sits in this
one video card sits in this one Kota
Masters trying to add a bit of space to
help with the thermals that will also
widen the chassis though but
Coolermaster is also going for a longer
chassis and we saw that at CES we can
pop some footage on the screen of what
theirs will look like but that's the
base board and then before we talk about
the rest I'm gonna pull the base board
out and then we'll look at how that
one's connected this is where it's kind
of interesting so this is a tenpin this
is the first time we've really seen 10
pin power connectors it's not quite
atx12v oh we thought it was so there's a
bit of a rata for you and Intel should
have corrected us on this when we
emailed them for help with the 12 vo
piece but this 12 vo specifically has 12
volt standby and this still has 5 volt
standby so it's not exactly 12 vo and
actually I can prove that right now
here's the power supply it's got a tiny
blower fan it looks like a 40 mil in the
back that's exhaust and then it's
relying on just pressure on in this
instance negative pressure at the front
of the power supply there's a bit of a
grill and that's where the air comes in
for the PSU now we're just going to take
apart the rest of the compute element
which I haven't done since CES and we'll
talk about the cooling solution here's
the interior of the compute element this
is the part that will be unchanging
because this is the part that Intel
makes and is the motherboard more or
less that's what it is you've got an SSD
slot here another m dot 2 slot here
they include small aluminum heat sinks
for them that are actually finned they
won't receive any really any meaningful
airflow from the blower fan here but
fins nonetheless CMOS is inside of the
chassis connects to the board by cable
the fan is a small blower fan and that's
a soon on maglev fan actually they're
the supplier one of the old suppliers
anyway of course Ayers maglev fans fun
trivia for you
this one is about a thing we typically
call that about a 40 mil and that's
gonna be the fan the fan bots up against
this aluminum fin stack and then you've
got a vapor chamber underneath which we
know for a number of reasons but one of
the most obvious towels is that tail
right there that's from a vapor chamber
you can always identify them by that
that's not a tiny heat pipe and then the
rest I think we're gonna need to take
this off next so here's the heat sink
and find on 80 HK is right there and
there's no IHS on that so instead you
connect directly to a vapor chamber so
you've got vrm components cooled by this
throw pad then we've got so Dems so
laptop memory here HyperX and the
solution is what they pre-installed and
over here there's some jumpers for
resets that I'm not 100% positive what
those reset I'd have to look into it and
then the fan connector right there so
that pretty much recaps the entire
interior of the thin and the case and a
bit on the power supply it's a very
compact solution that manages to to
handle itself thermally better than we
expected and a lot of that's just
because of the way they designed the
thermal solution at the lowest level
closest to the silicon after that you're
basically relying on a bit of a louder
fan but not too bad overall better than
expected time to look at production and
gaming performance we'll start with two
quick production benchmarks Adobe
Premiere and blender and then we'll talk
gaming a quick note we hacked together
and out of shell ghost cannon nook with
a 20 80 TI XE ultra for the GPU but this
isn't it's not it's not what you'd call
a supported configuration in case that
wasn't obvious
it also doesn't come with the random
Naga mounting hardware box as the
motherboard stand this configuration was
only used to standardize with the rest
of our CPU benchmarks for our upcoming
game tests but for the most part we ran
both the 2017 and 2018 configurations
the first of which was in the box for
Adobe Premiere our simpler 1080p60 show
floor rng render required about five
minutes to render on both versions of
our ghost cannon nook the GPU doesn't
really impact this type of premiere
workload cuda is a great equalizer for
these renders although we have newer
ones that will show more of a difference
the five-minute time
puts ghost Canyon near the 8700 case
stock CPU and faster than the 9600 case
stock CPU with a reduction in render
time of 11 percent the 4k 60 render has
ghost Canyon at about fifteen point five
minutes behind the six core 12 thread 87
RK and entire frequency affording the
8700 K a time reduction of 2 percent the
99 a th k-8 core part finishes the
render at about 4 percent less time than
the am the r7 1704 tile-based renderer
blender we're using our GN monkeyhead
render and our GN logo render both of
which are designed to be CPU intensive
but in different ways blender spawns one
tile per thread and is highly core and
thread dependent but frequency still
matters for the monkey heads up first
the ghost Canyon knocked required twenty
five point nine minutes to complete this
render for comparison the 8700 k-6 court
well thread CPU required about 26
minutes so the roughly even the and the
r7 1700 required about twenty eight
point two minutes allowing the ninety
nine eighty HK a bit of an advantage in
this test although not typically
choosing specifically between these two
parts just a point of reference CBO
naming has always been weird when you
consider the crossover between desktop
laptop and OC laptop parts and that
shows here this part is more similar to
8000 series Intel CPUs for the GN logo
render the 99 ATH k-8 core part required
33.6 minutes to complete the render
putting it between the 8700 K and 1700
sock CPUs that's mostly predictable
positioning if you wanted to build a
mini ITX box similar to this but it may
be a more standard form factor you'd be
looking at something like an 87 or k
9700 k or an r5 3600 to achieve similar
performance on these charts will quickly
look at some gaming benchmarks next
we're keeping these short since it's
sort of like benchmarking just any
computer you can customize the parts
with a nook so since we don't know the
fixed configuration that everyone's
going to use because it's not fixed
we're just going to test for the RT x
2070 config that was shipped to us and
for a standardized configuration with
our xx atti
the standardized one is what we use for
CPU benching so it equalizes for GPU
performance to instead show the
unconstrained cpu performance so that we
can understand how good the CPU is
ignoring the GPU aspect civilizations
starts us off this is a turn time
benchmark so it's measured in seconds
rather than frame rate we're at about 34
seconds per turn for this one on average
the Nook performs the same as the am the
r7 3808 core CPU the 8700 K Intel CPU
and slightly faster than the stock 9600
K Intel CPU the actual 9000 series chips
are much higher in the stack including
the 10 9 8 exe which might as well be a
9000 series chip at 30 2.9 seconds
actually might as well be a 7000 series
chip but you got the idea for Assassin's
Creed at 1080p the r-tx 2070 variant of
the Nook exhibits some GPU limitations
that artificially reduce its ranking as
a cpu against other CPUs in the chart
but this is a valid measurement of how
the total configuration performs at 105
FPS averages constraints to 8400 levels
of performance as for the more fair
comparison the 20 atti coupling has it
at 9600 case stock levels of performance
about 113 FPS average with loes times
well behind at 79 and 70 FPS for 0.1%
lows frame time consistency is good on
the 99 a thk CPU and that's one of its
strong points the r5 3600 though manages
to outperform the 980 HK overall so if
you just wanted to build a small ITX box
and you didn't need the special form
factor or unique approach to the PCB
then the 3600 might be a good choice at
this price point 1440p limits the RT x
2070 configuration more showing that
there's room yet for the CPU if the GPU
isn't restricting it the takeaway is
that you may want to consider an RT x
2070 super instead better enabling the
ghost Canyon nock to leverage its CPU
the CPU constrains configuration runs at
108 FPS average about equal to an AMD r7
2,700 X and r5 3600 and not distant from
the i5 9600 K stock CPU GTA 5 has the
knock at about 103 FPS average to 105
FPS average depending on the GPU that
puts it nearer the overclocked 6700 K
and the stock 8700 K then any other
desktop CPU once again it seems the
benchmark for this one is the coffee
like 8700 K the r5 3600 from AMD is also
a good comparison for total war
Warhammer to the 20 atti equipped
knock was more similar to the 6700 case
stock than anything else although with
improved frame times the 7600 K is also
close by it's not very impressive for a
CPU with nine in the name for this game
but that designation also changes with
whether it's a desktop or a mobile part
at the end of all of this then the PCIe
bandwidth test we did throw that in here
and we did a few things so we did for
example the most abusive possible
workload of the PCIe bandwidth tester
under 3dmark which is not realistic for
gaming at all it's much more abusive on
the PCIe bus than anything else and
running that alongside running SSD
benchmarks saw us mostly retaining the
speed of both devices there were times
when we'd see increased latency to the
SSD specifically the right latency
seemed to be impacted so there's there's
going to be some fade in performance
when using both devices heavily we don't
typically test SSDs in a serious
capacity anymore these days so we're not
fully equipped to do the deepest dive
type of testing I'd like to do on that
but overall if you are planning to do an
i/o intensive workload on the same base
board through the the PCIe bus at the
same time as you're doing a GPU
intensive workload you will likely
encounter at least some sort of impact
latency and/or the speed of both devices
but we were unable to see a significant
impact when using the card that comes
with it which is a 27 now if you were to
somehow do a 2080 upgrade which isn't
really supported by the power supply but
you did something custom that might be a
different story so additional use cases
of the compute element would mostly we
think involve trying to figure out how
to get it working as a secondary system
inside of your main system without
buying a full dual system case like an
evolve X you could potentially fit all
this into a normal ATX case and then it
might be interesting as something like
say a a box to handle your file
compression albeit less efficiently than
a larger Tower with more expensive
components could or you could use it as
a box to handle your stream encoding
again less cost efficiently than doing a
capture card and the host system or then
well just using a more expensive CPU or
for example so use cases are not the
easiest to find for the enthusiast
audience there are systems that will
have this embedded in the back of
monitors making it an AO and all-in-one
system
there's also use cases just using it as
a desktop and as your only computer it's
got deployments obviously and travel
where you could plug it into a hotel TV
you bring an IR sensing phone with you
and you can maybe access the service
mode is one of our patreon backers
recently told us and bring a keyboard
mouse with you so there's a lot of use
cases surrounding that travel
unfortunately right now probably not a
large market for anything but that's
kind of where it falls let us know what
you'd maybe use this for if you were
going to buy one but the build quality
is very good intel has done a fantastic
job of cramming in a lot of parts into a
box assembling it in a clever way
they've got thermal sensors in there
also that read and Hardware info so it's
standardized and they've done small
things like putting the I don't know if
you want to call that a manifold or what
but the plastic shroud between the
blower fan and the video cards there's a
lot of fine details that were really
paid attention to well and it's just a
matter of finding use cases for it so
that's it for this one fun to work with
really interesting product a small
market but well built and that will
cover us for the Intel Ghost Canyon nook
thermals by the way as a quick recap
overall much better than we expected and
noise is a bit jumpy but you should
probably go fix that yourself with a
custom fan group and as a quick aside
the BIOS on this system
it's got ups and downs but it's also
much better than we expected it's clear
that Intel's taking some of its old
motherboard visual BIOS team and
implemented it here anyway that's it
thanks for watching subscribe for more I
get a store like Aaron's XS net to helps
out directly or patreon.com slash gamers
Nexus and we'll see you all next time
[Music]